# csc120-final-project

Design justification:
When we began writing our code, we stuck all of it in one class (the main gameplay class, CandyLand). We realized that our game definitely needed more than one class early on, so that influenced our design which we mapped out using the architecture diagram. Although we considered making one class that would cover both the player and the boss and all other necessary, we decided to make separate Player and Boss classes because they actually have completely different attributes and methods. This helped us in the long run because a lot of our other classes make use of the Player class. Additionally, making a separate class for Controls and Rewards allowed us to keep the main CandyLand class clean and readable. 

Reflection (Uma):
My overall approach to tackling this project was to remain open to change and feedback throughout the entire process. I didn't want to get attached to anything in particular because I wanted the game to grow through feedback! Working on this project was a really great experience for me and I learned a lot. First, learning how to make an architecture diagram really helped me look at our code on a larger level instead of focusing in too much on the details. It helped me think about the relationships that our classes would have which was important for our final product. This project also helped me learn about taking abstract ideas and implementing them. For example, I had to think about how we wanted to implement a map/player location and how our code would know where the player was. Additionally, I really enjoyed thinking about the strategic elements, like where to place bosses and special squares. I'm happy with our code but if we had more time I think that implementing more graphics besides the ASCII art that we have in the game would be super fun! The most helpful feedback I received was from Mary in our first code review session, which made me realize that the user interface at that stage wasn't really readable to someone new to the game. This was something that Zoe and I didn't catch because we were so used to the interface. If I could give my past self advice about this project, I would say that starting out by thinking big is a good idea. It's easy to get caught up in details and lose sight of the big picture. I really enjoyed working in a team and thought that it was effective to share ideas with Zoe. I think this made our project better, because in addition to the feedback we got from others we also gave each other feedback!

Reflection (Zoe):
I enjoyed this project a lot! Certainly the hardest part was backtracking after about a week of work when we realized we wanted to use multiple classes. It was more challenging than I expected to work backwards, but proved extraordinarily helpful in the long run (despite the hours of debugging!). It was especially helpful to have made the transition early on in the scope of our project. Uma had the idea to code collaboratively via pair programming when fleshing out the main game loop—-drawing cards and initiating boss battles--which proved a very smart idea. We then added some of the more fun features on our own time. Outside of joint work, feedback from others who were detached from the project proved invaluable. Especially with some of the more bothersome bugs which we'd spent a while workshopping which ended up just needing a quick outside view. One of my friends solved an insufferable bug in 15 minutes; I had spent so much time with the code that the obvious solution escaped me. Another major helping factor was our planning. We started on the day the project was assigned, and met regularly during the initial stages of development. This made the design process slow and steady, as we never felt rushed for time. At the project's conclusion, I'm very happy with our final product and agree with Uma that it remains scalable. We could definitely add more features, but it's great as-is.